A few years ago there was a trend going on in the time management and productivity world called time boxing. Now what this meant was you would decide that say for example on the Saturday morning you're going to spend three hours cleaning your home and you would block cleaning in your calendar and then you would drag on top of that the things that you were going to clean. So for example at 10 a.m on Saturday morning you may start off with by cleaning your windows. Perhaps next you would clean your kitchen so you'd put a block in there for kitchen cleaning and then you would clean your living room for example and you'd put a block in there. Pretty soon though people discovered that this doesn't actually work. Now one of the reasons for that is you're not a machine. You are a human being and because of that this kind of detailed structure is never going to work. For one what we don't realize is just how long a task will take or is it really going to take one hour to clean your windows and what about the weather? That's something beyond your control. It could be pouring down with rain and howling a gale outside. Would you really want to go outside and clean your windows on that day? So that's one of the problems. Is it going to take you an hour precisely to clean the kitchen and an hour precisely to clean the living room? No. We're not very good as human beings at predicting how long something will take to do and this transfers into your working life too. You can look at an email and you can probably guesstimate how long it will take. Maybe it's going to take you 10 minutes, 20 minutes to reply to this email and then you discover oh yeah I need to remember this and oh oh I should actually make what's the name of that person. Suddenly that 10 minute email has now taken you 30 minutes. It's practically impossible to accurately estimate how long a task is going to take. Now this is quite different from having a meeting because with a meeting we normally negotiate a time. It might be a 30 minute stand meeting in the morning. You might have a one hour call with a client later in the day. You know you too, there are two people or more people involved in that particular negotiation on what we're going to do and how long. So that can be put on the calendar with some degree of certainty that that one hour meeting will last an hour. Tasks are very different and that's why we need to first define what a task is and then define what an event is. Well let's start with the easy one first. An event. An event is something that needs to take place on a specific day at a given time in a specific place. So let's take for example when I do my coaching calls I need to be in here in the studio with my computer and zoom open and because we need to be on the same sort of page I need to be meeting my clients at a given agreed time. So that might be 9 pm, it might be 10 pm in the evening. Great. That's a calendar event. It goes on my calendar because it's going to happen at a specific time on a specific day. A task on the other hand is very different. A task can be done anytime in the day. Now it might need to be done on a given day but there is no time when it actually has to be done. I could do it at 8 am, I could do it at 11.30 am, or I could do it at three o'clock in the afternoon. It doesn't matter when I do it. The only thing that matters is I do it at some point. Now for most of you if you actually take a look at the tasks in your task list or your to-do list probably you'll realise that 90% of them don't actually need to be done today. They're not that time sensitive. They could be done tomorrow or perhaps the day after. They're very woolly in terms of when they need to be done. So if you put a task, say I'm going to write this email at three o'clock this afternoon and then you find that some one of your colleagues says oh could I just borrow you for five minutes? I need to ask you a question and could I do this? Because you're not doing anything other than sitting at your computer. Nobody's going to say oh he's in a meeting I can't disturb him or whatever. So what we have to do is make very very clear about what an event is and what a task is. So a task can be done at any time either on a specific day or really anytime in the week. An event needs to be done at a specific time on a specific day in a given place. Once you've got that definition everything else starts to fit into place. However with time boxing there was something in it that can work in your favour. Now given that we know that an event has to happen at a certain time and a certain place on a given day, well what we can do is we can categorise our work. Now in my last video I went into detail about how you can categorise your work in Todoist and use that with your calendar. But what it essentially means is you need to divide up your work into categories. Now for most of us we're going to have communication. That's a category. We've got admin. That's a category. Now beyond that maybe we've got planning. That could be a category. We've got chores. That may be a category. But beyond that it really does depend on the kind of work you do. Now I create content. I'm also an author. I write. Therefore I need blocks of time for doing my writing. I like to do most of my creative work between 9.30 and 11.30 in the morning. Now over time, because you're not going to be able to suddenly change this overnight, but over a given amount of time I have managed to be able to get my calendar so that between 9.30 and 11.30 in the morning I sit down, everything's quiet and I can get on and do my creative work. After that I'm available for everybody in NABD and I can do those tasks that are in my task manager. All I need to know though at 9.30 is okay I am writing. I go to my Todoist and I can see my writing category and I can pick something that I'm going to write. That means that whenever I'm in the mood to write I can pick up and do that right there. Alternatively later in the day I've got my communication block. I have an hour set aside for communication. Now I don't know how long it will take me to write individual emails but I know I've got an hour to do as many as I can. So starting at usually 4pm in the afternoon, put a little bit of music on in the background, sit down, open up email and work on my actionable email. Great, after an hour I stop. Now it could be that maybe there's four or five emails I didn't get to but they are the ones that only came in a few hours ago so I'm not likely to be under any pressure to respond to them and they'll be the first ones I do tomorrow. So that's okay they will get a response within the 24 hours that I usually set as my guideline for responding to email. That's how you can use time boxing. Now one of the things I've noticed because I've been looking at Apple's new beta reminders and calendar integration. This is not going to work for most of you. Reason being is all it's doing is it's throwing all your tasks into your calendar and then you can start dragging them into place. But there is a problem with this. When I look at people's calendars, if you are starting to put all your tasks in there like okay I'm going to put this task in there that's 30 minutes, I'm going to put that task in there that's an hour. What you're doing is you're filling up your calendar. Now then when you look at your calendar later in the day and you're going oh tomorrow looks hell. Because it's just blocked minute by minute by minute. There's always something on your calendar. Now I know this is more of an aesthetic thing but what really happens then is mentally you already feel overwhelmed. Now as I say tasks should not be in your calendar. They're not time specific and if they were time specific they would not be a task. They would become an event. So tasks should never be in your task manager. You do not want to be bringing in your tasks into your calendar. It's just going to destroy your motivation. It's going to make your day look absolutely horrible. And that's what you want to avoid. You want to try and keep as much space in your calendar. All the unexpected things which will inevitably happen every day because nobody's going to get through the day unless you're living in a desert as you know doing nothing in a tent. And even then you've got tasks to do because you've got to find water and you've got to find food. It's never ending. But we do need to make sure that our calendar is protected and that it's only showing us the things that we are actually committed to doing, not overwhelming us with all the things that, so while some of these things can be done but may not need to be done, you've now created uncertainty. And that uncertainty leads to indecision. Indecision is one of the most draining things on your mind. Don't do it. Let your task manager do its job. These are the things that need to be done at some point today. It doesn't matter when and I don't know how long they're going to take but I'm just going to get them started when I've got the time. Calendar will tell you what you should be working on at that specific time. It might be I'm going to do some focused work so I'm going to write some proposals or reports. It might be I'm going to do my communication so that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to reply to my communications. Pick something then go to your task manager and say right I've got one hour let's do as much as I can. I can promise you you a you'll become a hell of a lot more productive but b you'll be a lot less stressed a lot less overwhelmed and your calendar starts to look beautiful and that is always a good place to be if you want to be a lot happier in what you're doing. I know this video is a bit short this week but if you want to learn more in detail about categorising your work then this video up here is the next one I suggest you watch.